---
description: >-
  Updates on intake of smart city proposals, plans for public events, and smart
  mobility initiatives
---

# July 29, 2019

Meeting date: July 29, 2019   
Meeting time: 9:00 AM - 10:30 AM   
Location: City Hall room 1029

## Agenda

**I. Welcome and meeting overview \(10 min\)**

**II. Results and lessons from CTM smart city pilot intake process \(15 min\)**  
Recap and lessons learned from an initial intake of a proposal for interactive kiosks \(Daniel Honker\)

**III. Overview of** [**Civic Futures Summit**](https://civicfutures.io/) **\(15 min\)**  
Presentation on this City of Austin-hosted conference October 1-2, including speakers and skills workshops for City staff \(Ben Guhin\)

**IV. Smart Mobility update \(15 min\)**  
Mobility data specification and Ford One City Challenge \(Jason JonMichael\)

**V. Announcements and updates \(20 min\)**

A. Drones advisory group update \(Rey Arellano\)  
B. Anchor institution umbrella agreement \(Ted Lehr\)  
C. Digital Inclusion Week announcement \(John Speirs\)  
D. Updates from [working groups](../working-groups.md)  
E. Other announcements and requests

**VI. Closing \(10 min\)** 

A. Recap of action items and future agenda items  
B. Next meeting: Fall 2019 \(date TBD\)

## Meeting notes

[Meeting slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k7DtNw5f3fVcy9ZSOLMuV46hxF25o1GidfGtes52KMc/edit?usp=sharing)

### I. Welcome and meeting overview

* Last meeting: [April 12, 2019](april-12-2019.md). Discussed future technology scenarios and their risks, including what roles the City might take to safeguard privacy and promote equity.
* This meeting continues a focus on the City's readiness for the changing technology landscape. 

### II. Results and lessons from CTM smart city pilot intake process

Recap and lessons learned from an initial intake of a proposal for interactive kiosks. Speaker: Daniel Honker

Presentation \([link to slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1k7DtNw5f3fVcy9ZSOLMuV46hxF25o1GidfGtes52KMc/edit#slide=id.g412e1f5569_6_113)\):

* CTM undertook a pilot intake process to evaluate a vendor proposal for smart city pilot projects. The process considered one industry submission, for a pilot of interactive kiosks. 
* Through this process, CTM sought to flesh out a model the City might use for vetting and prioritizing technology proposals, focused on resident impacts, benefits to the City government, and feasibility considerations \(risk, security, cost, etc.\). 
* Multiple departments vetted the kiosk proposal, which did not receive enough departmental interest to move forward. 
* CTM presented lessons learned in using the intake process, which the department is integrating into its organizational transformation. 
* CTM is also continuing to flesh out the prioritization model through the [Service Access project](https://bit.ly/service-access), which aims to inventory paper-based City services to redesign or digitize. 

### III. Overview of [Civic Futures Summit](https://civicfutures.io/)

Presentation on this City of Austin-hosted conference October 1-2, including speakers and skills workshops for City staff. Speaker: Ben Guhin

Presentation:

* The City of Austin will host the Civic Futures Summit \([civicfutures.io](https://civicfutures.io/)\) October 1-2. 
* Agenda includes workshops, mainstage speakers, and awards
* Participants can [nominate colleagues](https://civicfutures.io/#awards) for Civic Futures Awards which recognize those who are shaping the future across state and local government in Central Texas. 
* City employees can register through TRAIN.

### IV. Smart Mobility update 

Mobility data specification and Ford One City Challenge. Speaker: Jason JonMichael

Presentation on the Mobility Data Specification and open source mobility data:

* The [Mobility Data Specification](https://github.com/CityOfLosAngeles/mobility-data-specification#mobility-data-specification) \(MDS\) is a data standard used across many cities for mobility services \(e.g., scooters, ride hailing services\). 
* Austin supports MDS and has implemented some but not all of its provisions. Some MDS provisions may be prohibited under state law. 
* Related to MDS, the City of Austin is a member of the [Open Mobility Foundation](https://www.openmobilityfoundation.org/), a foundation that creates a governance structure around open-source mobility tools. 

Presentation on the Ford City:One Challenge

* The City of Austin has partnered with Ford on the [City:One Challenge,](https://challenges.cityoftomorrow.com/austin) a reverse-pitch process in which communities identify challenges and suggest solutions for issues at the intersection of mobility and healthy living.
* Ideas will be evaluated through several rounds, arriving at a finalist round of 12 ideas who receive resources to develop a full pilot proposal. The top application\(s\) will receive up to $100K for piloting.

### V. Announcements and updates \(20 min\)

#### **A. Drones advisory group update \(Rey Arellano\)**

* Group is working with the Law Department to formalize its structure, which may follow a similar charter to the Open and Smart Advisory Committee. 
* One issue the group will explore: How to de-conflict among drones operated by different departments during incident response. 

#### **B. Anchor institution umbrella agreement \(Ted Lehr\)**

* CTM is working with the University of Texas and Huston-Tillotson University on an umbrella research agreement to streamline collaboration toward civic goals. 
* CTM will convene a research group in August to explore research around drones. UT will manage the research, and City of Austin will manage the right-of-way. 
* CTM is preparing to brief the City Manager's Office on the proposed agreement, after which will convene a City staff team focused on research use cases. Agreement will likely take the form of an interlocal agreement between City of Austin and the universities. 

#### **C. Digital Inclusion Week announcement \(John Speirs\)**

* Digital Inclusion Week is October 7-11, 2019.
* Programming will include collaborations with Austin Public Library, Goodwill, Public Access, American Youth Works, and other partners convened through the [Digital Empowerment Community of Austin](http://www.austintexas.gov/page/digital-empowerment-community-austin).
* Additional ideas for programming should be directed to Jesse Rodriguez.

**D. Updates from working groups**

* **Governance** \(Elaine Nicholson\): Assisting in standing up an advisory group for drones. Lead for drones group is Victor Carr. Ford One:City Challenge is set for the August 8 Council agenda. Interest in several areas: 1\) standardizing templates for Council postings on technology procurement and security; 2\) encouraging pilots to be a short of duration as possible.  
* **Emerging tech** \(Kerry O'Connor\): Received Robert Wood Johnson Foundation grant to prototype a digital identity solution for people experiencing homelessness. Currently recruiting a four-person team that can design and develop with blockchain. Goal is to understand the integration points with local service providers \(including City programs such as Public Health and Austin Energy\). 
* **Projects** \(Stephen Elkins\): Currently focused on [service access project](https://bit.ly/service-access) to inventory City services that we could digitize and redesign. That inventory will provide some priority areas for new projects. 
* **Equitable outcomes** \(John Speirs\): Austin Public Health has created guidance on how to collect demographic data based on age/race/ethnicity. Will share with the OSAC network. 

#### E. Other announcements and requests

### VI. Closing \(10 min\) 

#### A. Recap of action items and future agenda items

* Information security plans
* Presentation on approved FY2020 budget and implications for technology and digital inclusion initiatives
* Update on the digital identity project from the Innovation Office. Could be the fall meeting or after
* Update on [service access](https://bit.ly/service-access) inventory of City services to digitize

#### B. Next meeting: Fall 2019 \(date TBD\)

## **Open issues and potential future agenda items \(updated post-meeting\)**

Governance for emerging technologies

* Smart city governance models \(ex: [KC Digital Drive](https://www.kcdigitaldrive.org/), [Denver Smart City](https://www.denvergov.org/content/denvergov/en/denver-smart-city.html), [Arizona Institute for Digital Progress](https://www.azidp.com/)\)
* City’s relationship with technology stakeholder organizations
* Purchasing innovation: agile services, open procurement, incremental funding
* US Ignite recommended pathways for City to work with startups

CTM efforts on privacy and security

Presentation on approved FY2020 budget and implications for technology and digital inclusion initiatives

Update on the digital identity project from the Innovation Office. Could be the fall meeting or after

Update on [service access](https://bit.ly/service-access) inventory of City services to digitize

