---
description: >-
  Revisiting how the City collaborates with technology associations, and sharing
  use cases and lessons learned in data and technology during COVID-19
---

# July 14, 2020

Meeting date: July 14, 2019   
Meeting time: 9:30 AM - 11:00 AM   
Location: Virtual

## Agenda

**I. Welcome, introductions, and meeting overview \(15 min\)**  
Introductions to Deputy City Manager, Chief Information Security Officer, Chief Privacy Officer

**II. Update on City’s role with technology associations  \(20 min\)**  
How departments are engaging with the changing landscape of technology associations in Austin

**III. Recent use cases for data and algorithms \(40 min\)**  
Current and emerging uses of data and technology for public services, and what challenges and risks these methods pose. 

* COVID-19 use cases and privacy/risk implications: Phillip Bays, Public Health; Divya Rathanlal, CTM; Elaine Nicholson, Chief Privacy Officer
* Homelessness dashboard: Lara Foss

**IV. Updates and announcements \(15 min\)**

* Results from the 2019 Civic Futures Summit
* MyPass digital identity project
* Updates from [working groups](../working-groups.md)
* Other announcements and requests

**V. Closing**

## Meeting notes

### I. Welcome, introductions, and meeting overview

Introductions to:

* Deputy City Manager: Nuria Rivera-Vandermyde
* Chief Information Security Officer: Shirley Erp
* Chief Privacy Officer: Elaine Nicholson \(previously advised OSAC on legal issues\)

The previous OSAC meeting was [July 29, 2019](july-29-2019.md). We discussed:

* Results and lessons learned from an intake process CTM ran for smart city project proposals from industry.
* Plans for the Civic Futures Summit, which the City hosted in October 2019. We will hear a brief recap on the event at the end of this meeting. 
* An update on smart mobility from Transportation, which included new data specifications and city efforts on governance of open source projects. 

### II. Update on City’s role with technology associations

The technology consortium Austin CityUP recently rechartered as the Austin Smart City Alliance. The group discussed what the Austin Smart City Alliance's rechartering means for City participation with the group, as well as participation with other technology associations. 

CTM and Law Department had proposed a template for a written agreement between the City and technology associations in 2019. The agreement was not finalized and signed. The City's goals in the agreement were to:

* Ensure strategic alignment and community value of projects that spur from collaboration with outside groups.
* Clarify how the City participates in membership organizations, considering ethics rules and potential for conflicts of interest.
* Place controls for standard legal provisions, ex: logo usage, endorsement, and conflicts of interest.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Action item**: Convene a smaller group to review how the City might engage with the Austin Smart City Alliance and other associations, and recommend an approach. 
{% endhint %}

### III. Recent use cases for data and algorithms

Current and emerging uses of data and technology for public services, and what challenges and risks these methods pose. 

#### A. COVID-19 use cases and privacy/risk implications

Speakers: Phillip Bays, Austin Public Health; Divya Rathanlal, CTM; Elaine Nicholson, Chief Privacy Officer. 

* Austin Public Health \(APH\) implemented a platform for public information, test scheduling, lab orders, targeted testing, case investigations, and a public hotline. 
* APH is making use of the data for purposes beyond COVID tracking, for example to forecast traffic outflows of testing locations onto highways and streets. 
* The data is owned by City of Austin, and no external organizations have access to the data. APH is looking into de-identifying the data to be able to share while minimizing risk. 
* CISO discussed working with departments on a privacy and security roadmap for City data. 
* An open data privacy risk assessment was suggested, such as what has been done by the [City of Seattle](https://fpf.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/FPF-Open-Data-Risk-Assessment-for-City-of-Seattle.pdf) or [City of San Francisco](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0jc1tmJAlTcR0RMV01PM2NyNDA/view). 

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Action item**: Austin Public Health to provide a list of data sets and priorities from APH to CMO.
{% endhint %}

#### B. Homelessness dashboard

Speaker: Lara Foss, CPIO

Slides on the homelessness dashboard \(coming soon\)

* CPIO and Office of Design and Delivery learned new insights on how to communicate nuances of data. Many of the concepts that are measured in housing and homelessness are not easy to understand, and this dashboard has made progress in communicating what those measures mean. 
* The group discussed the importance of communicating qualitative information along with the numbers -- to convey the human stories and impacts of homelessness. 
* The group expressed interest in having data to show why and how people fall into homelessness. This data does not exist in a ready format currently. 

{% hint style="warning" %}
**Action item**: Office of Performance Management and CTM Office of Design & Delivery to coordinate on parallel efforts on data visualization and dashboarding. 
{% endhint %}

### IV. Updates and announcements

#### MyPass digital identity project

Speakers: Kerry O'Connor, Chief Innovation Officer; Adam Wiedemann and Pablo Portilla del Valle, Innovation Office MyPass team

[Slides on the MyPass digital identity project](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QAyQw9vBDFBgY_kdRPwS3WutaqBke3rnmqvQiRM20pI/edit?usp=sharing)

* The Innovation Office invited departments to participate in testing or to learn more as the project's grant period comes to a close in fall 2020. 

